docs: added the first version of the quickstart guide for openapi-cli (#342)
Redocly/openapi-cli: docs/quickstart.md

          in: path
          required: true
          description: The id of the pet to retrieve
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        200:
          description: Expected response to a valid request
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pets"
        default:
          description: unexpected error
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: "#/components/schemas/Error"
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      required:
        - id
        - name
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer
          format: int64
        name:
          type: string
        tag:
          type: string
    Pets:
      type: array
      items:
        $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    Error:
      require:
        - code
        - message
      properties:
        code:
          type: integer
          format: int32
        message:
          type: string
```

### stats

With this command, you can get a quick statistics about the structure of one or more API definition files.

In your terminal, type the following:

> ```

Reviewer: We get little warnings if we don't declare a language.
```suggestion
```sh
```

$ openapi stats petstore.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

$ openapi stats petstore.yaml 
Document: petstore.yaml stats:

🚗 References: 3 
📦 External Documents: 0 
📈 Schemas: 3 
👉 Parameters: 2 
🔗 Links: 0 
➡️ Path Items: 2 
👷 Operations: 3 
🔖 Tags: 1 

petstore.yaml: stats processed in 10ms
```

Okay, now you know some basic information about your definition. But, is it valid? Are you sure that it doesn't contain errors and will be processed properly in your environment? No, you don't. We don't either. Let's check it.

### lint

With this command, you ensure that your OpenAPI definition files do not contain errors. 

In your terminal, type the following:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

$ openapi lint petstore.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Did you mean: required ?

101 |     $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
102 | Error:
103 |   require:
104 |     - code
105 |     - message

Error was generated by the spec rule.

[3] petstore.yaml:65:17 at #/paths/~1pets~1{petId/get/parameters/0/name

Path parameter `petId` is not used in the path `/pets/{petId`.

63 |   - pets
64 | parameters:
65 |   - name: petId
66 |     in: path
67 |     required: true

Error was generated by the path-parameters-defined rule.

[4] petstore.yaml:14:7 at #/paths/~1pets/get

Operation object should contain `operationId` field.

12 | /pets:
13 |   get:
14 |     summary: List all pets
15 |     operationIds: listPets
 … |     < 27 more lines >
43 |               $ref: "#/components/schemas/Error"
44 |   post:
45 |     summary: Create a pet

Warning was generated by the operation-operationId rule.

petstore.yaml: validated in 72ms

❌ Validation failed with 3 errors and 1 warning.
run with `--generate-ignore-file` to add all problems to ignore file.
```

Yikes! There are 3 errors!

Don't worry, they were made intentionally to show the power of the tool.

Let's fix the errors. Please, make the following modifications:

> ```sh line 15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash line 15
```

operationIds: --> operationId:
```

> ```sh line 58

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash line 58
```

Reviewer: I've missed this myself before,,, `sh` is not supported: https://prismjs.com/#supported-languages

/pets/{petId: --> /pets/{petId}:
```

> ```sh line 103

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash line 103
```

require: --> required:
```

Once fixed, run the `lint` command again:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi lint petstore.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi lint petstore.yaml 
No configurations were defined in extends -- using built in recommended configuration by default.

validating petstore.yaml...
petstore.yaml: validated in 44ms

Woohoo! Your OpenAPI definition is valid. 🎉
```

Congratulations! You did a great job and now your OpenAPI definition is valid!

### split

With this command, your OpenAPI definition file will be divided into constituent parts to follow the multi-file approach. `split` does the opposite of the [`bundle`](#bundle) command.

In your terminal, type the following:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi split petstore.yaml --outDir openapi
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi split petstore.yaml --outDir openapi
Document: petstore.yaml is successfully split
 and all related files are saved to the directory: openapi 

petstore.yaml: split processed in 44ms
```

Cool, split completed. But what actually happened?

Open the `openapi` directory. See? That's where the magic took place:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Reviewer: (Not clear if we can use treeview somehow: https://prismjs.com/plugins/treeview/)

.
├── components
│   └── schemas
│       ├── Error.yaml
│       ├── Pet.yaml
│       └── Pets.yaml
├── paths
│   ├── pets.yaml
│   └── pets@{petId}.yaml
└── openapi.yaml
```

With the `split` command, you can easily switch to a multi-file structure in a blink of an eye even if your definition file became extremely lengthy.

### bundle

With this command, you can merge standalone files back into a single definition file. `bundle` does the opposite of the [`split`](#split) command.

Let's bundle the definition file that we split earlier.

In your terminal, type the following:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
bundling openapi/openapi.yaml...
📦 Created a bundle for openapi/openapi.yaml at bundled.yaml 46ms.
```

You should now see a new `bundled.yaml` file as a result of the `bundle` command completion. Open this file in your text editor or IDE and compare it with the linted definition file. You can see that both files are the same which means that the `bundle` command executed flawlessly.

### preview-docs

With this command, you can run a server to preview your OpenAPI definition file in real-time mode.

In your terminal, type the following:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi preview-docs petstore.yaml 
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ openapi preview-docs petstore.yaml 
Using Redoc community edition.
Login with openapi-cli login or use an enterprise license key to preview with the premium docs.

  🔎  Preview server running at http://127.0.0.1:8080

Bundling...

  👀  Watching petstore.yaml and all related resources for changes

Created a bundle for petstore.yaml successfully
```

Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and check that your definition file has been served successfully:

> ![preview-docs](./images/preview-docs.png)

Reviewer: I wonder if it makes sense to make this image smaller (more cropped possibly). This is not a showstopper for me, so I'm good with the guide overall.

This server support live changes - try to modify your definition file, these modifications will be previewed immediately.

For example, change the version of your Swagger Petstore from `1.0.0` to `1.1.0`:

```yaml petstore.yaml
openapi: "3.0.0"
info:
  version: 1.1.0
  ...
```

You should get the following response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

# Quickstart guide

## Prerequisites

> 1. Learn the [basic features](index.md).

Author: > Learning the basic features is less of a prerequisite than having an OpenAPI definition they can use to actually try the tool.
Yes, agreed. We can actually leave 2 points here - installation and a yaml file to try out

> Instead of pasting the entire contents of an example definition into the quickstart guide in the next section, just add a link to the YAML file here, in the Prerequisites section. Link to this one from the developer-portal-starter, for example.

Can't agree 100%. Pasting a link is good from the unification perspective but I think giving a link to something that can be changed or moved is a bad idea. What if the content will be changed tomorrow? This guide will become irrelevant immediately and you will be forced to update it as soon as possible to avoid negative feedback or complaints about non-working or irrelevant steps.

 It's a user journey and we are trying to follow them through their very first introduction to the product. They must see and "feel" the process, instead of going here and there to find a particular file. Everything must be under their fingertips even if it requires you to produce some duplication or not-so-ideal steps. This is how the learning process goes. The users must understand the idempotency - If I use this example, I will always receive this result.

> 1. Learn the [basic features](index.md).

Reviewer 2: Okay, thank you for explaining your perspective! I understand now why you decided to present the content in this way. The issue with the content potentially changing tomorrow is valid for any documentation in the world so it's probably not the biggest problem here. But either way, it should be fine if you keep your approach. Maybe just explain a little bit about rules and what makes those errors get detected as errors - I hope you'll agree that information will be useful. :)

  /pets/{petId:
    get:
      summary: Info for a specific pet
      operationId: showPetById
      tags:
        - pets
      parameters:
        - name: petId
          in: path
          required: true
          description: The id of the pet to retrieve
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        200:
          description: Expected response to a valid request
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pets"
        default:
          description: unexpected error
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: "#/components/schemas/Error"
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      required:
        - id
        - name
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer
          format: int64
        name:
          type: string
        tag:
          type: string
    Pets:
      type: array
      items:
        $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    Error:
      require:
        - code
        - message
      properties:
        code:
          type: integer
          format: int32
        message:
          type: string
```

> ### stats

Author: Sure we can :) Sorry that I didn't spot the guides earlier, I will update the format

Property `require` is not expected here.

Did you mean: required ?

101 |     $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
102 | Error:
103 |   require:
104 |     - code
105 |     - message

Error was generated by the spec rule.

[3] petstore.yaml:65:17 at #/paths/~1pets~1{petId/get/parameters/0/name

Path parameter `petId` is not used in the path `/pets/{petId`.

63 |   - pets
64 | parameters:
65 |   - name: petId
66 |     in: path
67 |     required: true

Error was generated by the path-parameters-defined rule.

[4] petstore.yaml:14:7 at #/paths/~1pets/get

Operation object should contain `operationId` field.

12 | /pets:
13 |   get:
14 |     summary: List all pets
15 |     operationIds: listPets
 … |     < 27 more lines >
43 |               $ref: "#/components/schemas/Error"
44 |   post:
45 |     summary: Create a pet

Warning was generated by the operation-operationId rule.

petstore.yaml: validated in 72ms

❌ Validation failed with 3 errors and 1 warning.
run with `--generate-ignore-file` to add all problems to ignore file.
```

Yikes! There are 3 errors!

Don't worry, they were made intentionally to show the power of the tool.

> Let's fix the errors. Please, make the following modifications:

Author: Absolutely agreed. Thanks for such a detailed explanation. I will fix this.

```bash
.
├── components
│   └── schemas
│       ├── Error.yaml
│       ├── Pet.yaml
│       └── Pets.yaml
├── paths
│   ├── pets.yaml
│   └── pets@{petId}.yaml
└── openapi.yaml
```

With the `split` command, you can easily switch to a multi-file structure in a blink of an eye even if your definition file became extremely lengthy.

### bundle

With this command, you can merge standalone files back into a single definition file. `bundle` does the opposite of the [`split`](#split) command.

Let's bundle the definition file that we split earlier.

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
bundling openapi/openapi.yaml...
📦 Created a bundle for openapi/openapi.yaml at bundled.yaml 46ms.
```

You should now see a new `bundled.yaml` file as a result of the `bundle` command completion. Open this file in your text editor or IDE and compare it with the linted definition file. You can see that both files are the same which means that the `bundle` command executed flawlessly.

### preview-docs

> With this command, you can run a server to preview your OpenAPI definition file in real-time mode.

Reviewer 2: This is technically what happens in the background, but not quite what most users would expect or want to do from a command that's called preview-docs :) Could you try rephrasing this so it involves the fact that this generates a preview of the API documentation?

Bundling...

  👀  Watching petstore.yaml and all related resources for changes

Created a bundle for petstore.yaml successfully
```

Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and check that your definition file has been served successfully:

![preview-docs](../images/preview-docs.png)

This server support live changes - try to modify your definition file, these modifications will be previewed immediately.

For example, change the version of your Swagger Petstore from `1.0.0` to `1.1.0`:

```yaml petstore.yaml
openapi: "3.0.0"
info:
  version: 1.1.0
  ...
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
watch changed petstore.yaml
watch changed /path-to-your-project/petstore.yaml

Bundling...

Created a bundle for petstore.yaml successfully
GET /: 4.337ms
GET /: 3.825ms
GET /hot.js: 27.698ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 42.654ms
GET /: 6.77ms
GET /hot.js: 1.639ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 14.528ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 1.47ms
GET /hot.js: 1.826ms
GET /openapi.json: 0.499ms
GET /openapi.json: 2.293ms
GET /openapi.json: 0.867ms
```

Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and check the updated definition file:

![updated-preview-docs](../images/updated-preview-docs.png)

> ## Full list of commands

Reviewer 2: As mentioned previously, it would be useful if the last section in the quickstart was called "Next steps" and then listed 2-3 specific actions the user can do. One of them can be checking out the full list of commands to learn more, yes. The other two could be something like learn more about OpenAPI, or learn how to add your API definitions to the registry... Or learning about the .redocly.yaml configuration file. The possibilities are almost endless :) but we should focus on the actions that bring the most value.

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi stats petstore.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi stats petstore.yaml 
Document: petstore.yaml stats:

🚗 References: 3 
📦 External Documents: 0 
📈 Schemas: 3 
👉 Parameters: 2 
🔗 Links: 0 
➡️ Path Items: 2 
👷 Operations: 3 
🔖 Tags: 1 

petstore.yaml: stats processed in 10ms
```

Okay, now you know some basic information about your definition. But, is it valid? Are you sure that it doesn't contain errors and will be processed properly in your environment? No, you don't. We don't either. Let's check it.

### lint - check your definition files for validity and correctness

With this command, you ensure that your OpenAPI definition files do not contain errors and have a valid structure according to the specification. 

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi lint petstore.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi lint petstore.yaml 
No configurations were defined in extends -- using built in recommended configuration by default.

validating petstore.yaml...
petstore.yaml: validated in 59ms

Woohoo! Your OpenAPI definition is valid. 🎉
```

> That's great, but how does lint work when it detects errors? And what exactly the error is? To figure this out, let's introduce an error to our definition file and check how linter will react on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's great, but how does lint work when it detects errors? And what exactly the error is? To figure this out, let's introduce an error to our definition file and check the output.
```

* [1] petstore.yaml:15:7 (the error is somewhere at line 15 near the 7th symbol)
* Property `operationIdentifier` is not expected here (unexpected property)
* Error was generated by the spec rule (a rule that detected the error)

For the warning:
* [1] petstore.yaml:14:7 (the error is somewhere at line 14 near the 7th symbol)
* Operation object should contain `operationId` field (there should be a particular field here)
* Warning was generated by the operation-operationId rule (a rule that detected the warning)

You got that error because you've changed a property that is strictly defined in the specification. The linter has the [`spec`](./built-in-rules.md#spec) built-in rule that generates an error each time when it finds something that is not defined in the specification.

The warning is a consequence of the error - when you changed the `operationId`, you also changed the object that this property is a part of - the [Operation object](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#operation-object). Since the `operationId` is no longer there, you get a warning triggered by the corresponding built-in rule - [operation-operationId](./built-in-rules.md#operation-operationid).

> Let's make you definition valid again. If you look at the defined Field Names of the [Operation object](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#operation-object) (after the warning description), you can quickly detect what's wrong with your definition file - there cannot be a Field Name with the `operationIdentifier` name, it is invalid. So, change it back to the `operationId` and you're done. In this way, you will fix both the warning and the error because the unexpected property `operationIdentifier` is gone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's make your definition valid again. Look at the defined Field Names of the [Operation object](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#operation-object) (after the warning description). Detect what's wrong with your definition file - there cannot be a Field Name with the `operationIdentifier` name (it is invalid). Change it back to the `operationId` and you're done. You will fix both the warning and the error because the unexpected property `operationIdentifier` is gone.
```

Reviewer: I attempted to streamline and shorten sentences.

validating petstore.yaml...
petstore.yaml: validated in 47ms

Woohoo! Your OpenAPI definition is valid. 🎉
```

Congratulations! You did a great job and now your OpenAPI definition is valid again!

### split - divide your large definition into smaller constituent parts

With this command, your OpenAPI definition file will be divided into constituent parts to follow the multi-file approach.

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi split petstore.yaml --outDir openapi
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi split petstore.yaml --outDir openapi
Document: petstore.yaml is successfully split
 and all related files are saved to the directory: openapi 

petstore.yaml: split processed in 44ms
```

Cool, split completed. But what actually happened?

Open the `openapi` directory. See? That's where the magic took place:

```bash
.
├── components
│   └── schemas
│       ├── Error.yaml
│       ├── Pet.yaml
│       └── Pets.yaml
├── paths
│   ├── pets.yaml
│   └── pets@{petId}.yaml
└── openapi.yaml
```

With the `split` command, you can easily switch to a multi-file structure in a blink of an eye even if your definition file became extremely lengthy.

> 

Reviewer: You may want to briefly explain that they are connected by reference objects ($ref), and show an example from the `openapi.yaml` file.

Author: I believe we can make a reference here to the overview section where multi-file approach was described with examples: https://redoc.ly/docs/cli/#multi-file-approach

> ### bundle - combine several definition files into a single one

Reviewer: This isn't really combining several definition files -- that's what `join` does. In this case it is resolving the reference objects ($ref's) that exist in separate files and pulls them into a single bundled file. I would say something like it:

> bundle - resolves $ref's pointing to other files and pulls them into a single definition file

Author: Yeah, my bad, I didn't describe it properly.

However, for me, the text of the summary looks like we are gathering all the $ref's in one definition file.

Probably, my version is a bit clearer:

> bundle - pull separated parts of the OpenAPI definition into a single file

Reviewer: Yes. Good job.

With this command, you can merge standalone files back into a single definition file. `bundle` does the opposite of the [`split`](#split) command.

Let's bundle the definition file that you split earlier.

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi bundle openapi/openapi.yaml --output bundled.yaml
bundling openapi/openapi.yaml...
📦 Created a bundle for openapi/openapi.yaml at bundled.yaml 46ms.
```

> You should now see a new `bundled.yaml` file as a result of the `bundle` command completion. Open this file in your text editor or IDE and compare it with the linted definition file. You can see that both files are the same which means that the `bundle` command executed flawlessly.

Reviewer: FYI, it won't always be identical, but it will be identical in meaning. For example, if there were originally comments in the yaml file, those would be lost.

Author: Okay, got it.
In this case, I believe, we can simply say that "You can see that OpenAPI definition hasn't changed"

### preview-docs - preview your definition files quickly

> With this command, you can generate a preview your OpenAPI definition file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this command, you can generate a documentation preview for your OpenAPI definition file.
```

In your terminal, type the following:

```bash
$ openapi preview-docs petstore.yaml 
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
$ openapi preview-docs petstore.yaml 
Using Redoc community edition.
Login with openapi-cli login or use an enterprise license key to preview with the premium docs.

  🔎  Preview server running at http://127.0.0.1:8080

Bundling...

  👀  Watching petstore.yaml and all related resources for changes

Created a bundle for petstore.yaml successfully
```

Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and check that your definition file has been served successfully:

![preview-docs](../images/preview-docs.png)

> This server support live changes - try to modify your definition file, these modifications will be previewed immediately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This server supports live changes. Try to modify your definition file - the modifications will be visible in the preview immediately.
```

For example, change the version of your Swagger Petstore from `1.0.0` to `1.1.0`:

```yaml petstore.yaml
openapi: "3.0.0"
info:
  version: 1.1.0
  ...
```

You should get the following response:

```bash
watch changed petstore.yaml
watch changed /path-to-your-project/petstore.yaml

Bundling...

Created a bundle for petstore.yaml successfully
GET /: 4.337ms
GET /: 3.825ms
GET /hot.js: 27.698ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 42.654ms
GET /: 6.77ms
GET /hot.js: 1.639ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 14.528ms
GET /simplewebsocket.min.js: 1.47ms
GET /hot.js: 1.826ms
GET /openapi.json: 0.499ms
GET /openapi.json: 2.293ms
GET /openapi.json: 0.867ms
```

Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080` and check the updated definition file:

![updated-preview-docs](../images/updated-preview-docs.png)

## Next steps

- Check the full list of [OpenAPI CLI commands](./commands/index.md) available to you

> - Learn how to fine-tune your OpenAPI CLI tool using [configuraton file](./configuration/index.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to fine-tune your OpenAPI CLI tool using a [configuraton file](./configuration/index.mdx)
```

> * Check the full list of [OpenAPI CLI commands](./commands/index.md) available to you
> * Learn how to fine-tune your OpenAPI CLI tool using [configuraton file](./configuration/index.mdx)
> * Learn more about [custom plugins and rules](./custom-rules.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the full list of [OpenAPI CLI commands](./commands/index.md) available to you
- Learn how to fine-tune your OpenAPI CLI tool using [configuraton file](./configuration/index.mdx)
- Learn more about [custom plugins and rules](./custom-rules.md)
```
We didn't share this info but we're trying to consistently use the hyphen for bullets in Markdown.
